# Evaluating the Health and Fitness Benefits of a 6-Month FES-Cycling Program on a Recumbent Trike for Individuals with Motor Complete SCI: A Pilot Study

## 在横卧三轮车上评估为期6个月的FES骑行计划对运动完全SCI患者的健康和健身益处: 一项初步研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5795260/latest

Background: Spinal cord injury (SCI) severely affects physical function, leading to muscle atrophy and reduced bone density. Sport-therapy, incorporating recreational and competitive activities, has shown promise in enhancing recovery for individuals with SCI. Functional Electrical Stimulation (FES)-cycling combines exercise benefits with stimulation advantages, and recent integration with mobile recumbent trikes adds further potential. This study aimed to evaluate the effects of a 6-month FES-cycling sport therapy using a recumbent trike on individuals with motor complete SCI.
Methods: Five participants engaged in bi-weekly FES-cycling sessions using an instrumented recumbent trike. A comprehensive assessment was conducted before training, at 3 and 6 months of training, and at 1-month follow-up. Outcome measures included maximal muscle Cross-Sectional Area (maxCSA) from Magnetic Resonance Images, bone mineral density, clinical scales, and questionnaires on spasticity, pain, bowel dysfunction, psychological well-being, and sport motivation. Additionally, maximal power output and cycling endurance were assessed.
Results: The FES-cycling program led to a significant increase in muscle mass of 34% after 6 months of training, correlated to an improved cycling performance (maxCSA versus peak power). A slight decrease of muscle mass was observed as expected at follow-up. Participants reported high well-being and strong motivation throughout the training program. Bone health, spasticity, bowel dysfunction, and pain levels did not significantly change overall.
Conclusions: FES-cycling on a recumbent trike shows potential as a therapeutic and recreational activity for individuals with SCI. It significantly improved muscle mass and physical performance while positively impacting psychological well-being and motivation. Further research with larger cohorts is necessary to confirm these benefits and optimize protocols, establishing FES-cycling as a valuable sport-therapy model for SCI.
Trial registration: The study protocol was retrospectively registered on clinicaltrials.gov (NCT06321172) due to technical issue.


---
# A Hybrid Prediction Method for Conducted EMI in AC-DC Power Converter

## Ac-dc功率变换器传导EMI的混合预测方法

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5786716/latest

This paper proposes a hybrid prediction method for the conducted electromagnetic interference (EMI) of AC-DC power converter. Under this method, the equivalent EMI model of AC-DC converter system is established to separate interference source and conduction path in the converter. For the front stage rectifier with T type topology, a topology simplification method is applied to develop a time-domain model of the interference source with consideration given to variable slope characteristics and ringing effects. When modeling DC-DC converter stage, main interference source in time domain is built from the perspective of capacitor charging and discharging. Experimental verification is performed to obtain the results that are consistent with the analytical results obtained by using the proposed modeling method. Furthermore, frequency-domain prediction techniques are applied to forecast the conducted EMI of the converter. Finally, a comprehensive comparison is performed with other prediction method to demonstrate the advantage of this hybrid prediction method in accuracy, simulation speed and convergence.


---
# Observations of the 2021/2022 La Ni&ntilde;a mass coral bleaching event on the soft coral genus Sarcophyton at Magnetic Island (Australia)

## 在磁岛 (澳大利亚) 的软珊瑚属Sarcophyton上观察到2021/2022的拉尼娜大规模珊瑚漂白事件

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5765630/latest

Coral reef ecosystems are declining globally due to climate change. As most ecological studies have focused on stony corals, the distribution of other benthic communities and their susceptibility to bleaching remain largely overlooked. Soft corals can form diverse and ecologically important assemblages; hence it is important to understand their distribution and quantify the impacts of heatwaves on soft coral demographics. We surveyed soft corals on two inshore fringing reefs: Geoffrey Bay (19&amp;deg;09'13.7"S, 146&amp;deg;52'09.5"E) and Alma Bay (19&amp;deg;08'52.9"S, 146&amp;deg;52'13.7"E) at Magnetic Island. We aimed to survey soft corals to genus level. Then, we quantified the size frequency distribution of Sarcophyton colonies as the most abundant genus between substrate types, and examined the susceptibility of Sarcophyton to bleaching during the La Ni&amp;ntilde;a mass coral bleaching event in January-March 2022. We found the reefs at Magnetic Island to support diverse soft coral communities. Sarcophyton was one of the dominant soft coral genera on rock, rubble and sand beds, and colonies of all sizes experienced bleaching. Bleaching occurrence was lower in Alma Bay than Geoffrey Bay (26.66% and 52.27% of Sarcophyton colonies bleached, respectively). Bleaching was found to be depth- and size-dependent, as deeper and larger colonies had a greater likelihood to bleach. Since larger Sarcophyton colonies were more susceptible to bleaching, the impacts on reproduction, mortality and ecosystem functioning are likely to be significant. This is the first assessment of the soft corals at Magnetic Island and of the susceptibility of a common soft coral genus on the GBR to bleaching.


---
# Investigations on structural and electrical properties of ZnO based nanoparticles and composite

## ZnO基纳米粒子及其复合材料的结构和电性能研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5797355/latest

Diluted magnetic semiconductors (DMS) have emerged as promising candidates for spintronic devices, offering a unique combination of semiconducting and magnetic properties. In the present study, ZnO (Z) and Zn0.2Cu0.8O (C) nanostructured materials were synthesized using sol&amp;ndash;gel and co&amp;ndash;precipitation methods, respectively. Their composite, ZnO: Zn0.2Cu0.8O (ZC), was fabricated to investigate the structural and electrical properties. X&amp;ndash;ray diffraction (XRD) analysis confirms the hexagonal wurtzite phase and reveals a reduced crystallite size and suppressed lattice strain across the lattice of ZC composite, as compared to the pure phases (i.e. Z &amp;amp; C). Rietveld refinements and Williamson&amp;ndash;Hall (W&amp;ndash;H) analysis further established changes in lattice parameters and strain effect. The dielectric constant, measured for a frequency range between 20 Hz and 2 MHz, shows a significant enhancement in its values for composite material which can be attributed to the interfacial polarization and oxygen vacancies. Impedance spectroscopy reveals lower impedance in the ZC composite indicating better conduction pathways due to enhanced defect density and grain boundary interactions. AC conductivity, analyzed using Jonscher's power law, demonstrates that the correlated barrier hopping (CBH) mechanism governs the conduction, with ZC composite sample exhibiting the highest conductivity among all the three samples. These findings suggest that the composite exhibits improved dielectric and electrical performance due to synergistic effects between ZnO and Zn0.2Cu0.8O phases, making it a promising material for electronic and optoelectronic applications.


---
# Volcano Monitoring System for Long-Term Eruption Forecasting Using Multiple Data Sources

## 使用多数据源进行长期喷发预报的火山监测系统

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5787009/latest

Accurately forecasting volcanic eruptions is challenging due to the complexity of precursory signals. Here, we develop a machine learning-based long-term eruption forecasting model for Mount Aso, Japan, by integrating multiple observational datasets&mdash;seismic tremors, magnetic field, crater wall temperature, thermal pool temperature and volume, tilt, and volcanic gas amount&mdash;at the characteristic temporal scales of the underlying physical phenomena. The temporal scales are aligned with the intrinsic dynamics captured by each dataset to enhance the model's predictive capability. We construct a theoretical framework to quantify the predictive performance improvement. Our proposed model significantly improves predictive performance, increasing the Matthews correlation coefficient by 0.65 compared to the conventional seismic-tremor-based model, and achieving a precision of &gt;70% in predicting volcanic eruptions. Our findings demonstrate that an ensemble of multiple data sources over optimized temporal scales, underpinned by a theoretical ensemble framework, enables high-precision, interpretable eruption forecasts months in advance and makes effective disaster mitigation planning possible.


---
# Validating 70 Million Years of Convection Driven True Polar Wander and Dynamic Flattening with Paleomagnetic Data

## 用古地磁数据验证7000万年的对流驱动真极地漂移和动态展平

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5397333/latest

Mantle convection drives changes in Earth's ellipsoidal figure and corresponding moment of inertia, causing shifts in the planet's rotation axis known as true polar wander (TPW). Using seismic tomography and the Back-and-Forth Nudging (BFN) method, we developed a time-dependent convection model that reconstructs the evolution of mantle density distribution and Earth&rsquo;s moment of inertia over the past 70 million years. This modelling approach provides a close match with independent paleomagnetic constraints on the Cenozoic shifts of Earth&rsquo;s rotation pole, specifically resolving the previously unexplained U-turn in TPW trajectory at approximately 50 million years ago. Our findings reveal TPW shifts exceeding 5 degrees, despite the temporal stability imposed by high lower-mantle viscosity and the stabilizing effect of Earth's remnant rotational bulge. Verification of our predicted changes in Earth&rsquo;s ellipsoidal figure through independent paleomagnetic data provides a robust calibration for new predictions of convection-induced dynamic flattening variations. Over the past 70 million years, we find convection-induced changes of flattening that shift from -0.2% to +0.1 % during the Paleogene. Our predictions of Earth's axial precession frequency in the Paleogene align with recent independent cyclostratigraphic studies, thus validating our model's accuracy and supporting the hypothesis of reduced luni-solar tidal dissipation during this period.

