# Sequential memory improves sample and memory efficiency in episodic control

## 顺序记忆提高了情节控制中的采样和记忆效率

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s42256-024-00950-3

**Authors:** Paul F. M. J. Verschure

<p>Nature Machine Intelligence, Published online: 31 December 2024; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s42256-024-00950-3">doi:10.1038/s42256-024-00950-3</a></p>Previous studies have explored the integration of episodic memory into reinforcement learning and control. Inspired by hippocampal memory, Freire et al. develop a model that improves learning speed and stability by storing experiences as sequences, demonstrating resilience and efficiency under memory constraints.


---
# Actively-trained magnetic Moment Tensor Potentials reproduce mechanical, dynamical, and thermal properties of paramagnetic CrN

## 主动训练的磁矩张量势再现了顺磁性CrN的机械，动力学和热学性质

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20214

**Authors:** Alexey S. Kotykhov, Max Hodapp, Christian Tantardini, Konstantin Kravtsov, Ivan Kruglov, Alexander V. Shapeev, Ivan S. Novikov

arXiv:2412.20214v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We present a protocol for automated fitting of magnetic Moment Tensor Potential explicitly including magnetic moments in its functional form. For the fitting of this potential we use energies, forces, stresses, and magnetic forces (negative derivatives of energies with respect to magnetic moments) of configurations selected with an active learning algorithm. These selected configurations are computed using constrained density functional theory, which enables calculating energies and their derivatives for both equilibrium and non-equilibrium (excited) magnetic states. We test our protocol on the system of B1-CrN and demonstrate that the automatically trained magnetic Moment Tensor Potential reproduces mechanical, dynamical, and thermal properties, of B1-CrN in the paramagnetic state with respect to density functional theory and experiments.


---
# Machine learning the Renyi entropy of multiple disjoint intervals with neural networks

## 用神经网络机器学习多个不相交区间的Renyi熵

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20444

**Authors:** Han-Qing Shi, Hai-Qing Zhang

arXiv:2412.20444v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Renyi entropy with multiple disjoint intervals are computed from the improved swapping operations by two methods: one is from the direct diagonalization of the Hamiltonian and the other one is from the state-of-the-art machine learning method with neural networks. We use the paradigmatic transverse-field Ising model in one-dimension to demonstrate the strategy of the improved swapping operation. In particular, we study the second Renyi entropy with two, three and four disjoint intervals. We find that the results from the above two methods match each other very well within errors, which indicates that the machine learning method is applicable for calculating the Renyi entropy with multiple disjoint intervals. Moreover, as the magnetic field increases, the Renyi entropy grows as well until the system arrives at the critical point of the phase transition. However, as the magnetic field exceeds the critical value, the Renyi entropy will decrease since the system enters the paramagnetic phase. Overall, these results match the theoretical predictions very well and demonstrate the high accuracy of the machine learning methods with neural networks.


---
# Enhanced coarsening of charge density waves induced by electron correlation: Machine-learning enabled large-scale dynamical simulations

## 电子相关引起的电荷密度波的增强粗化: 机器学习支持大规模动力学模拟

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.21072

**Authors:** Yang Yang, Chen Cheng, Yunhao Fan, Gia-Wei Chern

arXiv:2412.21072v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The phase ordering kinetics of emergent orders in correlated electron systems is a fundamental topic in non-equilibrium physics, yet it remains largely unexplored. The intricate interplay between quasiparticles and emergent order-parameter fields could lead to unusual coarsening dynamics that is beyond the standard theories. However, accurate treatment of both quasiparticles and collective degrees of freedom is a multi-scale challenge in dynamical simulations of correlated electrons. Here we leverage modern machine learning (ML) methods to achieve a linear-scaling algorithm for simulating the coarsening of charge density waves (CDWs), one of the fundamental symmetry breaking phases in functional electron materials. We demonstrate our approach on the square-lattice Hubbard-Holstein model and uncover an intriguing enhancement of CDW coarsening which is related to the screening of on-site potential by electron-electron interactions. Our study provides fresh insights into the role of electron correlations in non-equilibrium dynamics and underscores the promise of ML force-field approaches for advancing multi-scale dynamical modeling of correlated electron systems.


---
# Emittance Minimization for Aberration Correction II: Physics-informed Bayesian Optimization of an Electron Microscope

## 用于像差校正的发射度最小化II: 电子显微镜的物理信息贝叶斯优化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20356

**Authors:** Desheng Ma, Steven E. Zeltmann, Chenyu Zhang, Zhaslan Baraissov, Yu-Tsun Shao, Cameron Duncan, Jared Maxson, Auralee Edelen, David A. Muller

arXiv:2412.20356v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Aberration-corrected Scanning Transmission Electron Microscopy (STEM) has become an essential tool in understanding materials at the atomic scale. However, tuning the aberration corrector to produce a sub-{\AA}ngstr\"om probe is a complex and time-costly procedure, largely due to the difficulty of precisely measuring the optical state of the system. When measurements are both costly and noisy, Bayesian methods provide rapid and efficient optimization. To this end, we develop a Bayesian approach to fully automate the process by minimizing a new quality metric, beam emittance, which is shown to be equivalent to performing aberration correction. In part I, we derived several important properties of the beam emittance metric and trained a deep neural network to predict beam emittance growth from a single Ronchigram. Here we use this as the black box function for Bayesian Optimization and demonstrate automated tuning of simulated and real electron microscopes. We explore different surrogate functions for the Bayesian optimizer and implement a deep neural network kernel to effectively learn the interactions between different control channels without the need to explicitly measure a full set of aberration coefficients. Both simulation and experimental results show the proposed method outperforms conventional approaches by achieving a better optical state with a higher convergence rate.


---
# Emittance Minimization for Aberration Correction I: Aberration correction of an electron microscope without knowing the aberration coefficients

## 像差校正的发射度最小化I: 不知道像差系数的电子显微镜的像差校正

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20358

**Authors:** Desheng Ma, Steven E. Zeltmann, Chenyu Zhang, Zhaslan Baraissov, Yu-Tsun Shao, Cameron Duncan, Jared Maxson, Auralee Edelen, David A. Muller

arXiv:2412.20358v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Precise alignment of the electron beam is critical for successful application of scanning transmission electron microscopes (STEM) to understanding materials at atomic level. Despite the success of aberration correctors, aberration correction is still a complex process. Here we approach aberration correction from the perspective of accelerator physics and show it is equivalent to minimizing the emittance growth of the beam, the span of the phase space distribution of the probe. We train a deep learning model to predict emittance growth from experimentally accessible Ronchigrams. Both simulation and experimental results show the model can capture the emittance variation with aberration coefficients accurately. We further demonstrate the model can act as a fast-executing function for the global optimization of the lens parameters. Our approach enables new ways to quickly quantify and automate aberration correction that takes advantage of the rapid measurements possible with high-speed electron cameras. In part II of the paper, we demonstrate how the emittance metric enables rapid online tuning of the aberration corrector using Bayesian optimization.


---
# Random Matrix Theory for Stochastic Gradient Descent

## 随机梯度下降的随机矩阵理论

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20496

**Authors:** Chanju Park, Matteo Favoni, Biagio Lucini, Gert Aarts

arXiv:2412.20496v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Investigating the dynamics of learning in machine learning algorithms is of paramount importance for understanding how and why an approach may be successful. The tools of physics and statistics provide a robust setting for such investigations. Here we apply concepts from random matrix theory to describe stochastic weight matrix dynamics, using the framework of Dyson Brownian motion. We derive the linear scaling rule between the learning rate (step size) and the batch size, and identify universal and non-universal aspects of weight matrix dynamics. We test our findings in the (near-)solvable case of the Gaussian Restricted Boltzmann Machine and in a linear one-hidden-layer neural network.


---
# Investigating layer-selective transfer learning of QAOA parameters for Max-Cut problem

## 最大割问题QAOA参数的层选择性迁移学习研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.21071

**Authors:** Francesco Aldo Venturelli, Sreetama Das, Filippo Caruso

arXiv:2412.21071v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Quantum approximate optimization algorithm (QAOA) is a variational quantum algorithm (VQA) ideal for noisy intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) processors, and is highly successful for solving combinatorial optimization problems (COPs). It has been observed that the optimal variational parameters obtained from one instance of a COP can be transferred to another instance, producing sufficiently satisfactory solutions for the latter. In this context, a suitable method for further improving the solution is to fine-tune a subset of the transferred parameters. We numerically explore the role of optimizing individual QAOA layers in improving the approximate solution of the Max-Cut problem after parameter transfer. We also investigate the trade-off between a good approximation and the required optimization time when optimizing transferred QAOA parameters. These studies show that optimizing a subset of layers can be more effective at a lower time-cost compared to optimizing all layers.


---
# Sparse chaos in cortical circuits

## 皮层电路中的稀疏混沌

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.21188

**Authors:** Rainer Engelken, Michael Monteforte, Fred Wolf

arXiv:2412.21188v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Nerve impulses, the currency of information flow in the brain, are generated by an instability of the neuronal membrane potential dynamics. Neuronal circuits exhibit collective chaos that appears essential for learning, memory, sensory processing, and motor control. However, the factors controlling the nature and intensity of collective chaos in neuronal circuits are not well understood. Here we use computational ergodic theory to demonstrate that basic features of nerve impulse generation profoundly affect collective chaos in neuronal circuits. Numerically exact calculations of Lyapunov spectra, Kolmogorov-Sinai-entropy, and upper and lower bounds on attractor dimension show that changes in nerve impulse generation in individual neurons moderately impact information encoding rates but qualitatively transform phase space structure. Specifically, we find a drastic reduction in the number of unstable manifolds, Kolmogorov-Sinai entropy, and attractor dimension. Beyond a critical point, marked by the simultaneous breakdown of the diffusion approximation, a peak in the largest Lyapunov exponent, and a localization transition of the leading covariant Lyapunov vector, networks exhibit sparse chaos: prolonged periods of near stable dynamics interrupted by short bursts of intense chaos. Analysis of large, more realistically structured networks supports the generality of these findings. In cortical circuits, biophysical properties appear tuned to this regime of sparse chaos. Our results reveal a close link between fundamental aspects of single-neuron biophysics and the collective dynamics of cortical circuits, suggesting that nerve impulse generation mechanisms are adapted to enhance circuit controllability and information flow.


---
# Universal energy-speed-accuracy trade-offs in driven nonequilibrium systems

## 驱动非平衡系统中的通用能量-速度-精度权衡

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17931

**Authors:** J\'er\'emie Klinger, Grant M. Rotskoff

arXiv:2402.17931v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Physical systems driven away from equilibrium by an external controller dissipate heat to the environment; the excess entropy production in the thermal reservoir can be interpreted as a "cost" to transform the system in a finite time. The connection between measure theoretic optimal transport and dissipative nonequilibrium dynamics provides a language for quantifying this cost and has resulted in a collection of "thermodynamic speed limits", which argue that the minimum dissipation of a transformation between two probability distributions is directly proportional to the rate of driving. Thermodynamic speed limits rely on the assumption that the target probability distribution is perfectly realized, which is almost never the case in experiments or numerical simulations. Here, we address the ubiquitous situation in which the external controller is imperfect. As a consequence, we obtain a lower bound for the dissipated work in generic nonequilibrium control problems that 1) is asymptotically tight and 2) matches the thermodynamic speed limit in the case of optimal driving. We illustrate these bounds on analytically solvable examples and also develop a strategy for optimizing minimally dissipative protocols based on optimal transport flow matching, a generative machine learning technique. This latter approach ensures the scalability of both the theoretical and computational framework we put forth. Crucially, we demonstrate that we can compute the terms in our bound numerically using efficient algorithms from the computational optimal transport literature and that the protocols that we learn saturate the bound.


---
# Exploring lattice thermal conductivity models via interpretable deep learning to accelerate the discovery of novel materials

## 通过可解释的深度学习探索晶格热导率模型，以加速新材料的发现

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.05948

**Authors:** Yuxuan Zeng, Wei Cao, Yijing Zuo, Tan Peng, Yue Hou, Ziyu Wang, Ling Miao, Jing Shi

arXiv:2412.05948v5 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Lattice thermal conductivity, being integral to thermal transport properties, is indispensable to advancements in areas such as thermoelectric materials and thermal management. Traditional methods, such as Density Functional Theory and Molecular Dynamics, require significant computational resources, posing challenges to the high-throughput prediction of lattice thermal conductivity. Although AI-driven material science has achieved fruitful progress, the trade-off between accuracy and interpretability in machine learning continues to hinder further advancements. This study utilizes interpretable deep learning techniques to construct a rapid prediction framework that enables both qualitative assessments and quantitative predictions, accurately forecasting the thermal transport properties of three novel materials. Furthermore, interpretable deep learning offers analytically grounded physical models while integrating with sensitivity analysis to uncover deeper theoretical insights.


---
# Identifying Split Vacancies with Foundation Models and Electrostatics

## 用基础模型和静电识别分裂的空缺

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19330

**Authors:** Se\'an R. Kavanagh

arXiv:2412.19330v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Point defects are ubiquitous in solid-state compounds, dictating many functional properties such as conductivity, catalytic activity and carrier recombination. Over the past decade, the prevalence of metastable defect geometries and their importance to relevant properties has been increasingly recognised. A particularly striking example of this is split vacancies, where an isolated atomic vacancy transforms to a stoichiometry-conserving complex of two vacancies and an interstitial ($V_X \rightarrow [V_X + X_i + V_X]$), which can be accompanied by a dramatic lowering of the defect energy and change in behaviour. Such species are particularly challenging to identify from computation, due to the `non-local' nature of this reconstruction. Here, I present an approach for efficiently identifying such species in solid-state compounds, through tiered screening which combines geometric analysis, electrostatic energies and foundation machine learning (ML) models. This approach allows the screening of all compounds in the Materials Project database (including all entries in the ICSD, along with several thousand predicted metastable materials), identifying thousands of split vacancy configurations, hitherto unknown. This study highlights both the potential utility of machine-learning potentials for defect investigations, with important caveats, and the importance of global optimisation approaches for correctly identifying stable defect geometries.


---
# A Self-Supervised Robotic System for Autonomous Contact-Based Spatial Mapping of Semiconductor Properties

## 用于半导体特性的基于自主接触的空间映射的自监督机器人系统

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.09892

**Authors:** Alexander E. Siemenn, Basita Das, Kangyu Ji, Fang Sheng, Tonio Buonassisi

arXiv:2411.09892v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Integrating robotically driven contact-based material characterization techniques into self-driving laboratories can enhance measurement quality, reliability, and throughput. While deep learning models support robust autonomy, current methods lack reliable pixel-precision positioning and require extensive labeled data. To overcome these challenges, we propose an approach for building self-supervised autonomy into contact-based robotic systems that teach the robot to follow domain expert measurement principles at high-throughputs. Firstly, we design a vision-based, self-supervised convolutional neural network (CNN) architecture that uses differentiable image priors to optimize domain-specific objectives, refining the pixel precision of predicted robot contact poses by 20.0% relative to existing approaches. Secondly, we design a reliable graph-based planner for generating distance-minimizing paths to accelerate the robot measurement throughput and decrease planning variance by 6x. We demonstrate the performance of this approach by autonomously driving a 4-degree-of-freedom robotic probe for 24 hours to characterize semiconductor photoconductivity at 3,025 uniquely predicted poses across a gradient of drop-casted perovskite film compositions, achieving throughputs over 125 measurements per hour. Spatially mapping photoconductivity onto each drop-casted film reveals compositional trends and regions of inhomogeneity, valuable for identifying manufacturing process defects. With this self-supervised CNN-driven robotic system, we enable high-precision and reliable automation of contact-based characterization techniques at high throughputs, thereby allowing the measurement of previously inaccessible yet important semiconductor properties for self-driving laboratories.


---
# Industrial-scale Prediction of Cement Clinker Phases using Machine Learning

## 使用机器学习对水泥熟料相进行工业规模预测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11981

**Authors:** Sheikh Junaid Fayaz, Nestor Montiel-Bohorquez, Shashank Bishnoi, Matteo Romano, Manuele Gatti, N. M. Anoop Krishnan

arXiv:2412.11981v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Cement production, exceeding 4.1 billion tonnes and contributing 2.4 tonnes of CO2 annually, faces critical challenges in quality control and process optimization. While traditional process models for cement manufacturing are confined to steady-state conditions with limited predictive capability for mineralogical phases, modern plants operate under dynamic conditions that demand real-time quality assessment. Here, exploiting a comprehensive two-year operational dataset from an industrial cement plant, we present a machine learning framework that accurately predicts clinker mineralogy from process data. Our model achieves unprecedented prediction accuracy for major clinker phases while requiring minimal input parameters, demonstrating robust performance under varying operating conditions. Through post-hoc explainable algorithms, we interpret the hierarchical relationships between clinker oxides and phase formation, providing insights into the functioning of an otherwise black-box model. This digital twin framework can potentially enable real-time optimization of cement production, thereby providing a route toward reducing material waste and ensuring quality while reducing the associated emissions under real plant conditions. Our approach represents a significant advancement in industrial process control, offering a scalable solution for sustainable cement manufacturing.


---
# Incentivizing supplemental math assignments and using AI-generated hints improve exam performance, especially for racially minoritized students

## 激励补充数学作业并使用AI生成的提示可以提高考试成绩，特别是对于种族少数的学生

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19961

**Authors:** Yifan Lu, K. Supriya, Shanna Shaked, Elizabeth H. Simmons, Alexander Kusenko

arXiv:2412.19961v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Inequities in student access to trigonometry and calculus are often associated with racial and socioeconomic privilege, and are often propagated to introductory physics course performance. To mitigate these disparities in student preparedness, we developed a two-pronged intervention consisting of (1) incentivized supplemental mathematics assignments and (2) AI-generated learning support tools in the forms of optional hints embedded in the physics assignments. Both interventions are grounded in the Situated Expectancy-Value Theory of Achievement Motivation, which posits that students are more likely to complete a task that they expect to do well in and whose outcomes they think are valuable. For the supplemental math assignments, the extra credit available was scaled to make it worth more points for the students with lower exam scores, thereby creating even greater value for the students who might most benefit from the assignments. For the AI-generated hints, these were integrated into the homework assignments, thereby reducing or eliminating the cost to the student, in terms of time, energy, and social barriers or fear of judgment. Our findings indicate that both these interventions are associated with increased exam scores; in particular, the scaled extra credit reduced disparities in completion of math supplemental material and was associated with reducing racial disparities in exam scores. These interventions, which are relatively simple for any instructor to implement, are therefore very promising for creating more equitable undergraduate quantitative-based courses.


---
# Hybrid Machine Learning and Physics-based Modelling of Pedestrian Pushing Behaviours at Bottlenecks

## 瓶颈处行人推动行为的混合机器学习和基于物理的建模

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20058

**Authors:** Qiancheng Xu, Ezel \"Usten, Ahmed Alia, Biao He, Renzhong Guo, Mohcine Chraibi

arXiv:2412.20058v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In high-density crowds, close proximity between pedestrians makes the steady state highly vulnerable to disruption by pushing behaviours, potentially leading to serious accidents. However, the scarcity of experimental data has hindered systematic studies of its mechanisms and accurate modelling. Using behavioural data from bottleneck experiments, we investigate pedestrian heterogeneity in pushing tendencies, showing that pedestrians tend to push under high-motivation and in wider corridors. We introduce a spatial discretization method to encode neighbour states into feature vectors, serving together with pedestrian pushing tendencies as inputs to a random forest model for predicting pushing behaviours. Through comparing speed-headway relationships, we reveal that pushing behaviours correspond to an aggressive space-utilization movement strategy. Consequently, we propose a hybrid machine learning and physics-based model integrating pushing tendencies heterogeneity, pushing behaviours prediction, and dynamic movement strategies adjustment. Validations show that the hybrid model effectively reproduces experimental crowd dynamics and fits to incorporate additional behaviours.


---
# Leveraging turbulence data with physics informed neural networks

## 利用具有物理信息的神经网络的湍流数据

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20130

**Authors:** Minjun J. Choi (Korea Institute of Fusion Energy)

arXiv:2412.20130v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Physics informed neural network (PINN) can enhance the value of turbulence diagnostics data in fusion experiments. For example, it can predict a missing field in a physical system with information provided by measured data and the model equations of the system. We investigate effects of the noise in the data and the spatial resolution of diagnostics channels in the prediction of a missing field in a physical system using the PINN and existing data. We also discuss how spatio-temporal dynamics captured by turbulence diagnostics can directly test model equations of plasma turbulence.


---
# Learning physical unknowns from hydrodynamic shock and material interface features in ICF capsule implosions

## 从ICF胶囊内爆中的流体动力冲击和材料界面特征中学习物理未知数

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20192

**Authors:** Daniel A. Serino, Evan Bell, Marc Klasky, Ben S. Southworth, Balasubramanya Nadiga, Trevor Wilcox, Oleg Korobkin

arXiv:2412.20192v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In high energy density physics (HEDP) and inertial confinement fusion (ICF), predictive modeling is complicated by uncertainty in parameters that characterize various aspects of the modeled system, such as those characterizing material properties, equation of state (EOS), opacities, and initial conditions. Typically, however, these parameters are not directly observable. What is observed instead is a time sequence of radiographic projections using X-rays. In this work, we define a set of sparse hydrodynamic features derived from the outgoing shock profile and outer material edge, which can be obtained from radiographic measurements, to directly infer such parameters. Our machine learning (ML)-based methodology involves a pipeline of two architectures, a radiograph-to-features network (R2FNet) and a features-to-parameters network (F2PNet), that are trained independently and later combined to approximate a posterior distribution for the parameters from radiographs. We show that the estimated parameters can be used in a hydrodynamics code to obtain density fields and hydrodynamic shock and outer edge features that are consistent with the data. Finally, we demonstrate that features resulting from an unknown EOS model can be successfully mapped onto parameters of a chosen analytical EOS model, implying that network predictions are learning physics, with a degree of invariance to the underlying choice of EOS model.


---
# Emittance Minimization for Aberration Correction II: Physics-informed Bayesian Optimization of an Electron Microscope

## 用于像差校正的发射度最小化II: 电子显微镜的物理信息贝叶斯优化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20356

**Authors:** Desheng Ma, Steven E. Zeltmann, Chenyu Zhang, Zhaslan Baraissov, Yu-Tsun Shao, Cameron Duncan, Jared Maxson, Auralee Edelen, David A. Muller

arXiv:2412.20356v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Aberration-corrected Scanning Transmission Electron Microscopy (STEM) has become an essential tool in understanding materials at the atomic scale. However, tuning the aberration corrector to produce a sub-{\AA}ngstr\"om probe is a complex and time-costly procedure, largely due to the difficulty of precisely measuring the optical state of the system. When measurements are both costly and noisy, Bayesian methods provide rapid and efficient optimization. To this end, we develop a Bayesian approach to fully automate the process by minimizing a new quality metric, beam emittance, which is shown to be equivalent to performing aberration correction. In part I, we derived several important properties of the beam emittance metric and trained a deep neural network to predict beam emittance growth from a single Ronchigram. Here we use this as the black box function for Bayesian Optimization and demonstrate automated tuning of simulated and real electron microscopes. We explore different surrogate functions for the Bayesian optimizer and implement a deep neural network kernel to effectively learn the interactions between different control channels without the need to explicitly measure a full set of aberration coefficients. Both simulation and experimental results show the proposed method outperforms conventional approaches by achieving a better optical state with a higher convergence rate.


---
# Emittance Minimization for Aberration Correction I: Aberration correction of an electron microscope without knowing the aberration coefficients

## 像差校正的发射度最小化I: 不知道像差系数的电子显微镜的像差校正

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20358

**Authors:** Desheng Ma, Steven E. Zeltmann, Chenyu Zhang, Zhaslan Baraissov, Yu-Tsun Shao, Cameron Duncan, Jared Maxson, Auralee Edelen, David A. Muller

arXiv:2412.20358v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Precise alignment of the electron beam is critical for successful application of scanning transmission electron microscopes (STEM) to understanding materials at atomic level. Despite the success of aberration correctors, aberration correction is still a complex process. Here we approach aberration correction from the perspective of accelerator physics and show it is equivalent to minimizing the emittance growth of the beam, the span of the phase space distribution of the probe. We train a deep learning model to predict emittance growth from experimentally accessible Ronchigrams. Both simulation and experimental results show the model can capture the emittance variation with aberration coefficients accurately. We further demonstrate the model can act as a fast-executing function for the global optimization of the lens parameters. Our approach enables new ways to quickly quantify and automate aberration correction that takes advantage of the rapid measurements possible with high-speed electron cameras. In part II of the paper, we demonstrate how the emittance metric enables rapid online tuning of the aberration corrector using Bayesian optimization.


---
# Topological analysis reveals multiple pathways in molecular dynamics

## 拓扑分析揭示了分子动力学中的多种途径

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20580

**Authors:** Luca Donati, Surahit Chewle, Dominik St. Pierre, Vijay Natarajan, Marcus Weber

arXiv:2412.20580v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Molecular Dynamics simulations are essential tools for understanding the dynamic behavior of biomolecules, yet extracting meaningful molecular pathways from these simulations remains challenging due to the vast amount of generated data. In this work, we present Molecular Kinetics via Topology (MoKiTo), a novel approach that combines machine learning techniques to determine the reaction coordinate of a molecular system with a topological analysis inspired by the Mapper algorithm. Our strategy efficiently identifies and characterizes distinct molecular pathways, enabling the detection and visualization of critical conformational transitions and rare events. This method offers deeper insights into molecular mechanisms, facilitating the design of targeted interventions in drug discovery and protein engineering.


---
# Diffractive Magic Cube Network with Super-high Capacity Enabled by Mechanical Reconfiguration

## 通过机械重构实现超高容量的衍射魔方网络

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20693

**Authors:** Peijie Feng, Fubei Liu, Yuanfeng Liu, Mingzhe Chong, Zongkun Zhang, Qian Zhao, Jingbo Sun, Ji Zhou, Yunhua Tan

arXiv:2412.20693v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Multiplexing and dynamic reconfigurable metasurfaces have been extensively studied to enhance system capacity in response to the challenges posed by the exponential growth of optical information. Among them, the mechanically reconfigurable strategy offers a cost-effective and low-complexity approach for capacity enhancement. However, the channel numbers achieved in current studies are insufficient for practical applications because of inadequate mechanical transformations and suboptimal optimization methods. In this article, a diffractive magic cube network (DMCN) is proposed to advance the multiplexing capacity of mechanically reconfigurable metasurfaces. We utilized the deep diffractive neural network (D2NN) model to jointly optimize the subset of channels generated by the combination of three mechanical operations, permutation, translation, and rotation. The 144-channel holograms, 108-channel single-focus/multi-focus, and 60-channel orbital angular momentum (OAM) beam/comb generation were numerically achieved and experimentally validated using a spatial light modulator (SLM) and a reflective mirror. Our strategy not only provides a novel paradigm to improve metasurface capacity to super-high level with low crosstalk, but also paves the way for new advancements in optical storage, computing, communication, and photolithography.


---
# Acquisition-Independent Deep Learning for Quantitative MRI Parameter Estimation using Neural Controlled Differential Equations

## 基于神经控制微分方程的采集无关深度学习定量MRI参数估计

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20844

**Authors:** Daan Kuppens (Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, Imaging and Biomarkers, Cancer Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands), Sebastiano Barbieri (Queensland Digital Health Centre, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia, Centre for Big Data Research in Health, UNSW Sydney, Sydney, Australia), Daisy van den Berg (Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, Department of Biomedical Engineering and Physics, Amsterdam University Medical Center location University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands), Pepijn Schouten (Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands), Harriet C. Thoeny (University Teaching and Research Hospital, University of Fribourg, Fribourg, Switzerland, Department of Urology, Inselspital, University of Bern, Switzerland), Myrte Wennen (Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands), Oliver J. Gurney-Champion (Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, Imaging and Biomarkers, Cancer Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands)

arXiv:2412.20844v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Deep learning has proven to be a suitable alternative to least-squares (LSQ) fitting for parameter estimation in various quantitative MRI (QMRI) models. However, current deep learning implementations are not robust to changes in MR acquisition protocols. In practice, QMRI acquisition protocols differ substantially between different studies and clinical settings. The lack of generalizability and adoptability of current deep learning approaches for QMRI parameter estimation impedes the implementation of these algorithms in clinical trials and clinical practice. Neural Controlled Differential Equations (NCDEs) allow for the sampling of incomplete and irregularly sampled data with variable length, making them ideal for use in QMRI parameter estimation. In this study, we show that NCDEs can function as a generic tool for the accurate prediction of QMRI parameters, regardless of QMRI sequence length, configuration of independent variables and QMRI forward model (variable flip angle T1-mapping, intravoxel incoherent motion MRI, dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI). NCDEs achieved lower mean squared error than LSQ fitting in low-SNR simulations and in vivo in challenging anatomical regions like the abdomen and leg, but this improvement was no longer evident at high SNR. NCDEs reduce estimation error interquartile range without increasing bias, particularly under conditions of high uncertainty. These findings suggest that NCDEs offer a robust approach for reliable QMRI parameter estimation, especially in scenarios with high uncertainty or low image quality. We believe that with NCDEs, we have solved one of the main challenges for using deep learning for QMRI parameter estimation in a broader clinical and research setting.


---
# Machine Learning of Slow Collective Variables and Enhanced Sampling via Spatial Techniques

## 慢集体变量的机器学习和通过空间技术的增强采样

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20868

**Authors:** Tu\u{g}\c{c}e G\"okdemir, Jakub Rydzewski

arXiv:2412.20868v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Understanding the long-time dynamics of complex physical processes depends on our ability to recognize patterns. To simplify the description of these processes, we often introduce a set of reaction coordinates, customarily referred to as collective variables (CVs). The quality of these CVs heavily impacts our comprehension of the dynamics, often influencing the estimates of thermodynamics and kinetics from atomistic simulations. Consequently, identifying CVs poses a fundamental challenge in chemical physics. Recently, significant progress was made by leveraging the predictive ability of unsupervised machine learning techniques to determine CVs. Many of these techniques require temporal information to learn slow CVs that correspond to the long timescale behavior of the studied process. Here, however, we specifically focus on techniques that can identify CVs corresponding to the slowest transitions between states without needing temporal trajectories as input, instead using the spatial characteristics of the data. We discuss the latest developments in this category of techniques and briefly discuss potential directions for thermodynamics-informed spatial learning of slow CVs.


---
# AI-Supported Data Analysis Boosts Student Motivation and Reduces Stress in Physics Education

## 人工智能支持的数据分析可以提高学生的学习动机，减轻物理教育的压力

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20951

**Authors:** Jannik Henze, Andr\'e Bresges, Sebastian Becker-Genschow

arXiv:2412.20951v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The integration of artificial intelligence (AI) in physics education enables novel approaches to data analysis and conceptual learning. A comparative analysis of AI-supported and traditional Excel-based methods reveals distinct strengths and limitations in fostering understanding of pendulum experiments. This study explores the integration of AI-assisted tools, such as a custom chatbot based on ChatGPT, and traditional Excel-based methods in physics education, revealing that while both approaches produce comparable quantitative learning gains, AI tools provide significant qualitative advantages. These include enhanced emotional engagement and higher motivation, highlighting the potential of AI to create a more positive and supportive learning environment. Adaptive AI technologies offer significant promise in supporting structured, data-intensive tasks, emphasizing the necessity for thoughtfully balanced integration into educational practices.


---
# DeepF-fNet: a physics-informed neural network for vibration isolation optimization

## Deepf-fnet: 用于隔振优化的物理通知神经网络

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.21132

**Authors:** A. Tollardo, F. Cadini, M. Giglio, L. Lomazzi

arXiv:2412.21132v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Structural optimization is essential for designing safe, efficient, and durable components with minimal material usage. Traditional methods for vibration control often rely on active systems to mitigate unpredictable vibrations, which may lead to resonance and potential structural failure. However, these methods face significant challenges when addressing the nonlinear inverse eigenvalue problems required for optimizing structures subjected to a wide range of frequencies. As a result, no existing approach has effectively addressed the need for real-time vibration suppression within this context, particularly in high-performance environments such as automotive noise, vibration and harshness, where computational efficiency is crucial.
  This study introduces DeepF-fNet, a novel neural network framework designed to replace traditional active systems in vibration-based structural optimization. Leveraging DeepONets within the context of physics-informed neural networks, DeepF-fNet integrates both data and the governing physical laws. This enables rapid identification of optimal parameters to suppress critical vibrations at specific frequencies, offering a more efficient and real-time alternative to conventional methods.
  The proposed framework is validated through a case study involving a locally resonant metamaterial used to isolate structures from user-defined frequency ranges. The results demonstrate that DeepF-fNet outperforms traditional genetic algorithms in terms of computational speed while achieving comparable results, making it a promising tool for vibration-sensitive applications. By replacing active systems with machine learning techniques, DeepF-fNet paves the way for more efficient and cost-effective structural optimization in real-world scenarios.


---
# Inelastic Scattering, Emergent Interactions of Solitons in the Zakharov-Kuznetsov Equation through Conservative and non-Conservative Physics-Informed Neural Networks

## 非弹性散射，通过保守和非保守物理信息神经网络在zakharov-kuznetsov方程中孤子的紧急相互作用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20027

**Authors:** A. Nakamula, K. Obuse, N. Sawado, K. Shimasaki, Y. Shimazaki, Y. Suzuki, K. Toda

arXiv:2412.20027v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Physics-Informed Neural Networks (PINNs) are used to study collision process of soliton solutions in the 2+1 dimensional Zakharov-Kuznetsov equation. The Zakharov-Kuznetsov equation originally was the model in three dimensions of plasma with a uniform magnetic field and it is a direct extension of the KdV equation into higher dimensions and is a typical quasi-integrable system. PINNs successfully solve the equations in the forward process and the solutions are obtained using the mesh-free approach and automatic differentiation while accounting for conservation laws. In the inverse process, the proper form of the equation can be successfully derived from a given training data. On the other hand, the situation becomes weird in the collision process. The result in the forward analysis no longer possesses the conservation laws, which is ought to be referred to as a dynamically incompatible field configuration (DIFC) instead of the solutions of the system. Conservative PINNs are thus introduced and we succeed to obtain the solutions that satisfy the conservation laws. The inverse analysis suggests a different equation where the coefficients exhibit the significant changes, which implies an emergent temporal interaction. With these modulated coefficients, we recalculate the equation and confirm that the conservation law has unquestionably improved.


---
# Multi-agent reinforcement learning in the all-or-nothing public goods game on networks

## 网络上全有或全无公共物品博弈中的多智能体强化学习

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20116

**Authors:** Benedikt Valentin Meylahn

arXiv:2412.20116v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We study interpersonal trust by means of the all-or-nothing public goods game between agents on a network. The agents are endowed with the simple yet adaptive learning rule, exponential moving average, by which they estimate the behavior of their neighbors in the network. Theoretically we show that in the long-time limit this multi-agent reinforcement learning process always eventually results in indefinite contribution to the public good or indefinite defection (no agent contributing to the public good). However, by simulation of the pre-limit behavior, we see that on complex network structures there may be mixed states in which the process seems to stabilize before actual convergence to states in which agent beliefs and actions are all the same. In these metastable states the local network characteristics can determine whether agents have high or low trust in their neighbors. More generally it is found that more dense networks result in lower rates of contribution to the public good. This has implications for how one can spread global contribution toward a public good by enabling smaller local interactions.


---
# Actively-trained magnetic Moment Tensor Potentials reproduce mechanical, dynamical, and thermal properties of paramagnetic CrN

## 主动训练的磁矩张量势再现了顺磁性CrN的机械，动力学和热学性质

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20214

**Authors:** Alexey S. Kotykhov, Max Hodapp, Christian Tantardini, Konstantin Kravtsov, Ivan Kruglov, Alexander V. Shapeev, Ivan S. Novikov

arXiv:2412.20214v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We present a protocol for automated fitting of magnetic Moment Tensor Potential explicitly including magnetic moments in its functional form. For the fitting of this potential we use energies, forces, stresses, and magnetic forces (negative derivatives of energies with respect to magnetic moments) of configurations selected with an active learning algorithm. These selected configurations are computed using constrained density functional theory, which enables calculating energies and their derivatives for both equilibrium and non-equilibrium (excited) magnetic states. We test our protocol on the system of B1-CrN and demonstrate that the automatically trained magnetic Moment Tensor Potential reproduces mechanical, dynamical, and thermal properties, of B1-CrN in the paramagnetic state with respect to density functional theory and experiments.


---
# Improved ICNN-LSTM Model Classification Based on Attitude Sensor Data for Hazardous State Assessment of Magnetic Adhesion Climbing Wall Robots

## 基于姿态传感器数据的改进icnn-lstm模型分类用于磁附着爬壁机器人危险状态评估

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20675

**Authors:** Zhen Ma, He Xu, Jielong Dou, Yi Qin, Xueyu Zhang

arXiv:2412.20675v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Magnetic adhesion tracked climbing robots are widely utilized in high-altitude inspection, welding, and cleaning tasks due to their ability to perform various operations against gravity on vertical or inclined walls. However, during operation, the robot may experience overturning torque caused by its own weight and load, which can lead to the detachment of magnetic plates and subsequently pose safety risks. This paper proposes an improved ICNN-LSTM network classification method based on Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems (MEMS) attitude sensor data for real-time monitoring and assessment of hazardous states in magnetic adhesion tracked climbing robots. Firstly, a data acquisition strategy for attitude sensors capable of capturing minute vibrations is designed. Secondly, a feature extraction and classification model combining an Improved Convolutional Neural Network (ICNN) with a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) network is proposed. Experimental validation demonstrates that the proposed minute vibration sensing method achieves significant results, and the proposed classification model consistently exhibits high accuracy compared to other models. The research findings provide effective technical support for the safe operation of climbing robots


---
# About rectified sigmoid function for enhancing the accuracy of Physics-Informed Neural Networks

## 关于用于提高物理信息神经网络准确性的修正sigmoid函数

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20851

**Authors:** Vasiliy A. Es'kin, Alexey O. Malkhanov, Mikhail E. Smorkalov

arXiv:2412.20851v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The article is devoted to the study of neural networks with one hidden layer and a modified activation function for solving physical problems. A rectified sigmoid activation function has been proposed to solve physical problems described by the ODE with neural networks. Algorithms for physics-informed data-driven initialization of a neural network and a neuron-by-neuron gradient-free fitting method have been presented for the neural network with this activation function. Numerical experiments demonstrate the superiority of neural networks with a rectified sigmoid function over neural networks with a sigmoid function in the accuracy of solving physical problems (harmonic oscillator, relativistic slingshot, and Lorentz system).


---
# Active grid turbulence anomalies through the lens of physics informed neural networks

## 通过物理通知神经网络的镜头主动网格湍流异常

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.03919

**Authors:** Sof\'ia Angriman, Sarah E. Smith, Patricio Clark di Leoni, Pablo J. Cobelli, Pablo D. Mininni, Mart\'in Obligado

arXiv:2409.03919v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Active grids operated with random protocols are a standard way to generate large Reynolds number turbulence in wind and water tunnels. But anomalies in the decay and third-order scaling of active-grid turbulence have been reported. We combine Laser Doppler Velocimetry and hot-wire anemometry measurements in a wind tunnel, with machine learning techniques and numerical simulations, to gain further understanding on the reasons behind these anomalies. Numerical simulations that incorporate the statistical anomalies observed in the experimental velocity field near the active grid can reproduce the experimental anomalies observed later in the decay. The results indicate that anomalies in experiments near the active grid introduce correlations in the flow that can persist for long times.


---
# An Investigation of Physics Informed Neural Networks to solve the Poisson-Boltzmann Equation in Molecular Electrostatics

## 研究物理通知神经网络以解决分子静电中的poisson-boltzmann方程

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.12810

**Authors:** Martin A. Achondo, Jehanzeb H. Chaudhry, Christopher D. Cooper

arXiv:2410.12810v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Physics-informed neural networks (PINN) is a machine learning (ML)-based method to solve partial differential equations that has gained great popularity due to the fast development of ML libraries in the last few years. The Poisson-Boltzmann equation (PBE) is widely used to model mean-field electrostatics in molecular systems, and in this work we present a detailed investigation of the use of PINN to solve the PBE. Starting from a multidomain PINN for the PBE with an interface, we assess the importance of incorporating different features into the neural network architecture. Our findings indicate that the most accurate architecture utilizes input and output scaling layers, a random Fourier features layer, trainable activation functions, and a loss balancing algorithm. The accuracy of our implementation is of the order of 10$^{-2}$ -- $10^{-3}$, which is similar to previous work using PINN to solve other differential equations. We also explore the possibility of incorporating experimental information into the model, and discuss challenges and future work, especially regarding the nonlinear PBE. Along with this manuscript, we are providing an open-source implementation to easily perform computations from a PDB file. We hope this work will motivate application scientists into using PINN to study molecular electrostatics, as ML technology continues to evolve at a high pace.


---
# Physically Guided Deep Unsupervised Inversion for 1D Magnetotelluric Models

## 一维大地电磁模型的物理引导深度无监督反演

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.15274

**Authors:** Paul Goyes-Pe\~nafiel, Umair bin Waheed, Henry Arguello

arXiv:2410.15274v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The global demand for unconventional energy sources such as geothermal energy and white hydrogen requires new exploration techniques for precise subsurface structure characterization and potential reservoir identification. The Magnetotelluric (MT) method is crucial for these tasks, providing critical information on the distribution of subsurface electrical resistivity at depths ranging from hundreds to thousands of meters. However, traditional iterative algorithm-based inversion methods require the adjustment of multiple parameters, demanding time-consuming and exhaustive tuning processes to achieve proper cost function minimization. Although recent advances have incorporated deep learning algorithms for MT inversion, primarily based on supervised learning, \paul{and} needs large labeled datasets for training. This work utilizes TensorFlow operations to create a differentiable forward MT operator, leveraging its automatic differentiation capability. Moreover, instead of solving for the subsurface model directly, as classical algorithms perform, this paper presents a new deep unsupervised inversion algorithm guided by physics to estimate 1D MT models. Instead of using datasets with the observed data and their respective model as labels during training, our method employs a differentiable modeling operator that physically guides the cost function minimization, making the proposed method solely dependent on observed data. Therefore, the optimization \paul{algorithm} updates the network weights to minimize the data misfit. We test the proposed method with field and synthetic data at different acquisition frequencies, demonstrating that the resistivity models obtained are more accurate than those calculated using other techniques.


---
# Improved Greedy Identification of Latent Dynamics with Application to Fluid Flows

## 改进的潜在动力学贪婪识别及其在流体流动中的应用

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.08071

**Authors:** R. Ayoub, M. Oulghelou, P. J Schmid

arXiv:2411.08071v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Model reduction is a key technology for large-scale physical systems in science and engineering, as it brings behavior expressed in many degrees of freedom to a more manageable size that subsequently allows control, optimization, and analysis with multi-query algorithms. We introduce an enhanced regression technique tailored to uncover quadratic parametric reduced-order dynamical systems from data. Our method, termed Improved Greedy Identification of Latent Dynamics (I-GILD), refines the learning phase of the original GILD approach. This refinement is achieved by reorganizing the quadratic model coefficients, allowing the minimum-residual problem to be reformulated using the Frobenius norm. Consequently, the optimality conditions lead to a generalized Sylvester equation, which is efficiently solved using the conjugate gradient method. Analysis of the convergence shows that I-GILD achieves superior convergence for quadratic model coefficients compared to GILD's steepest gradient descent, reducing both computational complexity and iteration count. Additionally, we derive an error bound for the model predictions, offering insights into error growth in time and ensuring controlled accuracy as long as the magnitudes of initial error is small and learning residuals are well minimized. The efficacy of I-GILD is demonstrated through its application to numerical and experimental tests, specifically the flow past Ahmed body with a variable rear slant angle, and the lid-driven cylindrical cavity problem with variable Reynolds numbers, utilizing particle-image velocimetry (PIV) data. These tests confirm I-GILD's ability to treat real-world dynamical system challenges and produce effective reduced-order models.


---
# Refinable modeling for unbinned SMEFT analyses

## 用于未装箱SMEFT分析的可细化建模

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.19076

**Authors:** Robert Sch\"ofbeck

arXiv:2406.19076v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: We present techniques for estimating the effects of systematic uncertainties in unbinned data analyses at the LHC. Our primary focus is constraining the Wilson coefficients in the standard model effective field theory (SMEFT), but the methodology applies to broader parametric models of phenomena beyond the standard model (BSM). We elevate the well-established procedures for binned Poisson counting experiments to the unbinned case by utilizing machine-learned surrogates of the likelihood ratio. This approach can be applied to various theoretical, modeling, and experimental uncertainties. By establishing a common statistical framework for BSM and systematic effects, we lay the groundwork for future unbinned analyses at the LHC. Additionally, we introduce a novel tree-boosting algorithm capable of learning highly accurate parameterizations of systematic effects. This algorithm extends the existing toolkit with a versatile and robust alternative. We demonstrate our approach using the example of an SMEFT interpretation of highly energetic top quark pair production in proton-proton collisions.


---
# Automatic feature selection and weighting in molecular systems using Differentiable Information Imbalance

## 使用可微分信息不平衡的分子系统中的自动特征选择和加权

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00851

**Authors:** Romina Wild, Felix Wodaczek, Vittorio Del Tatto, Bingqing Cheng, Alessandro Laio

arXiv:2411.00851v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Feature selection is essential in the analysis of molecular systems and many other fields, but several uncertainties remain: What is the optimal number of features for a simplified, interpretable model that retains essential information? How should features with different units be aligned, and how should their relative importance be weighted? Here, we introduce the Differentiable Information Imbalance (DII), an automated method to rank information content between sets of features. Using distances in a ground truth feature space, DII identifies a low-dimensional subset of features that best preserves these relationships. Each feature is scaled by a weight, which is optimized by minimizing the DII through gradient descent. This allows simultaneously performing unit alignment and relative importance scaling, while preserving interpretability. DII can also produce sparse solutions and determine the optimal size of the reduced feature space. We demonstrate the usefulness of this approach on two benchmark molecular problems: (1) identifying collective variables that describe conformations of a biomolecule, and (2) selecting features for training a machine-learning force field. These results show the potential of DII in addressing feature selection challenges and optimizing dimensionality in various applications. The method is available in the Python library DADApy.


---
# Exploring lattice thermal conductivity models via interpretable deep learning to accelerate the discovery of novel materials

## 通过可解释的深度学习探索晶格热导率模型，以加速新材料的发现

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.05948

**Authors:** Yuxuan Zeng, Wei Cao, Yijing Zuo, Tan Peng, Yue Hou, Ziyu Wang, Ling Miao, Jing Shi

arXiv:2412.05948v5 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Lattice thermal conductivity, being integral to thermal transport properties, is indispensable to advancements in areas such as thermoelectric materials and thermal management. Traditional methods, such as Density Functional Theory and Molecular Dynamics, require significant computational resources, posing challenges to the high-throughput prediction of lattice thermal conductivity. Although AI-driven material science has achieved fruitful progress, the trade-off between accuracy and interpretability in machine learning continues to hinder further advancements. This study utilizes interpretable deep learning techniques to construct a rapid prediction framework that enables both qualitative assessments and quantitative predictions, accurately forecasting the thermal transport properties of three novel materials. Furthermore, interpretable deep learning offers analytically grounded physical models while integrating with sensitivity analysis to uncover deeper theoretical insights.


---
# TAEN: A Model-Constrained Tikhonov Autoencoder Network for Forward and Inverse Problems

## TAEN: 一个模型约束的Tikhonov自动编码器网络，用于正反问题

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07010

**Authors:** Hai V. Nguyen, Tan Bui-Thanh, Clint Dawson

arXiv:2412.07010v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Efficient real-time solvers for forward and inverse problems are essential in engineering and science applications. Machine learning surrogate models have emerged as promising alternatives to traditional methods, offering substantially reduced computational time. Nevertheless, these models typically demand extensive training datasets to achieve robust generalization across diverse scenarios. While physics-based approaches can partially mitigate this data dependency and ensure physics-interpretable solutions, addressing scarce data regimes remains a challenge. Both purely data-driven and physics-based machine learning approaches demonstrate severe overfitting issues when trained with insufficient data. We propose a novel Tikhonov autoencoder model-constrained framework, called TAE, capable of learning both forward and inverse surrogate models using a single arbitrary observation sample. We develop comprehensive theoretical foundations including forward and inverse inference error bounds for the proposed approach for linear cases. For comparative analysis, we derive equivalent formulations for pure data-driven and model-constrained approach counterparts. At the heart of our approach is a data randomization strategy, which functions as a generative mechanism for exploring the training data space, enabling effective training of both forward and inverse surrogate models from a single observation, while regularizing the learning process. We validate our approach through extensive numerical experiments on two challenging inverse problems: 2D heat conductivity inversion and initial condition reconstruction for time-dependent 2D Navier-Stokes equations. Results demonstrate that TAE achieves accuracy comparable to traditional Tikhonov solvers and numerical forward solvers for both inverse and forward problems, respectively, while delivering orders of magnitude computational speedups.


---
# High-Rank Irreducible Cartesian Tensor Decomposition and Bases of Equivariant Spaces

## 高阶不可约笛卡尔张量分解和等变空间的基

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18263

**Authors:** Shihao Shao, Yikang Li, Zhouchen Lin, Qinghua Cui

arXiv:2412.18263v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Irreducible Cartesian tensors (ICTs) play a crucial role in the design of equivariant graph neural networks, as well as in theoretical chemistry and chemical physics. Meanwhile, the design space of available linear operations on tensors that preserve symmetry presents a significant challenge. The ICT decomposition and a basis of this equivariant space are difficult to obtain for high-order tensors. After decades of research, we recently achieve an explicit ICT decomposition for $n=5$ \citep{bonvicini2024irreducible} with factorial time/space complexity. This work, for the first time, obtains decomposition matrices for ICTs up to rank $n=9$ with reduced and affordable complexity, by constructing what we call path matrices. The path matrices are obtained via performing chain-like contraction with Clebsch-Gordan matrices following the parentage scheme. We prove and leverage that the concatenation of path matrices is an orthonormal change-of-basis matrix between the Cartesian tensor product space and the spherical direct sum spaces. Furthermore, we identify a complete orthogonal basis for the equivariant space, rather than a spanning set \citep{pearce2023brauer}, through this path matrices technique. We further extend our result to the arbitrary tensor product and direct sum spaces, enabling free design between different spaces while keeping symmetry. The Python code is available in https://github.com/ShihaoShao-GH/ICT-decomposition-and-equivariant-bases where the $n=6,\dots,9$ ICT decomposition matrices are obtained in 1s, 3s, 11s, and 4m32s, respectively.


---
# Identifying Split Vacancies with Foundation Models and Electrostatics

## 用基础模型和静电识别分裂的空缺

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19330

**Authors:** Se\'an R. Kavanagh

arXiv:2412.19330v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Point defects are ubiquitous in solid-state compounds, dictating many functional properties such as conductivity, catalytic activity and carrier recombination. Over the past decade, the prevalence of metastable defect geometries and their importance to relevant properties has been increasingly recognised. A particularly striking example of this is split vacancies, where an isolated atomic vacancy transforms to a stoichiometry-conserving complex of two vacancies and an interstitial ($V_X \rightarrow [V_X + X_i + V_X]$), which can be accompanied by a dramatic lowering of the defect energy and change in behaviour. Such species are particularly challenging to identify from computation, due to the `non-local' nature of this reconstruction. Here, I present an approach for efficiently identifying such species in solid-state compounds, through tiered screening which combines geometric analysis, electrostatic energies and foundation machine learning (ML) models. This approach allows the screening of all compounds in the Materials Project database (including all entries in the ICSD, along with several thousand predicted metastable materials), identifying thousands of split vacancy configurations, hitherto unknown. This study highlights both the potential utility of machine-learning potentials for defect investigations, with important caveats, and the importance of global optimisation approaches for correctly identifying stable defect geometries.


---
# Physics-assisted machine learning for slurry drying simulation in manufacturing process of battery electrodes: A hybrid time-dependent VGG16-DEM model

## 电池电极制造过程中浆料干燥仿真的物理辅助机器学习: 混合时间相关VGG16-DEM模型

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-w4h5s-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Francisco, Fernandez

In this study, we present a hybrid Physics-Assisted Machine Learning (PAML) model that integrates Deep Learning (DL) techniques with the classical Discrete Element Method (DEM) to simulate the slurry drying during a lithium ion battery electrode manufacturing process. This model predicts the microstructure evolution leading to the formation of the electrode, as a time-series along the drying process. The hybrid approach consists in performing a certain amount of DEM simulation steps, n_DEM, after every DL prediction, mitigating the risk of unphysical predictions, like overlapping particles. Our PAML model was rigorously tested by evaluating different functional metrics of the predicted electrodes, including density, porosity, tortuosity factor, and radial distribution function.  We conducted an in-depth analysis of performance versus accuracy, particularly focusing on the impact of the n_DEM hyperparameter, which represents the number of DEM steps executed between two subsequent DL predictions. Despite the model being trained on a specific formulation (96 % of Active Material, AM, and 4 % of Carbon Binder Domain, CBD), it demonstrated exceptional generalization capability when used to extrapolate to a different formulation (94 % AM and 6 % CBD). This adaptability highlights the robustness of our PAML hybrid approach. Furthermore, the integration of DL significantly reduced the computational cost versus the original DEM model simulation, decreasing the calculation time from 615 minutes to 36 min for the whole slurry drying simulation process. Our findings underscore the potential of combining ML with traditional simulation methods to enhance efficiency and accuracy in the field of electrode manufacturing.


---
# A Conversational Large-Language-Model AI Agent for Synthesis of Metal-Organic Frameworks for Efficient Hydrogenation of Dicyclopentadiene

## 用于合成金属有机框架以有效氢化双环戊二烯的对话大语言模型AI代理

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-7kds2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Xinmeng, Xu

Metal-Organic Frameworks (MOFs), renowned for their structural diversity and design flexibility, have demonstrated considerable potential in catalysis. However, the traditional trial-and-error approach is inefficient for optimizing catalytic performance in synthetic space. In this work, we propose MOFsyn Agent, a framework leveraging Large Language Models (LLMs) to guide the efficient synthesis and performance optimization of MOFs. MOFsyn Agent is an integrated system comprising two core components: data automatic analyzer and material mechanism analyzer. The system can be driven to perform data analysis operations such as task disassembly, code writing and execution by simple natural language commands only. Furthermore, the incorporation of the Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) technology enables MOFsyn Agent to access external knowledge bases in real time, significantly enhancing its domain applicability in MOFs synthesis. Taking Ni@UiO-66(Ce) as an illustrative example, MOFsyn Agent conducted a comprehensive analysis of the relationships between synthetic conditions, structural characteristics, and catalytic performance. Through machine learning (ML), key features such as nickel content and metallic nickel were identified. Notably, MOFsyn Agent not only realizes the numerical prediction based on ML, but also optimizes the synthesis scheme from the textual level, and creatively proposes a step-by-step reduction strategy, which replaces the traditional one-pot direct reduction method. Experimental results demonstrated that the optimized Ni@UiO-66(Ce) can achieve saturated hydrogenation of dicyclopentadiene under more mild conditions (80 °C, 2 MPa) in only 1 h, validating the accuracy and reliability of the proposed method. This research provides an efficient tool for material intelligent synthesis to researchers without a programming background, accelerating the development process of new materials.


---
# On the physical origins of reduced ionic conductivity in nanoconfined electrolytes

## 关于纳米受限电解质中离子电导率降低的物理起源

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-3p7hg?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Angelos, Michaelides

Ion transport through nanoscale pores is at the heart of numerous energy storage and separation technologies. Despite significant efforts to uncover the complex interplay of ion-ion, ion-water, and ion-pore interactions that give rise to these transport processes, the atomistic mechanisms of ion motion in confined electrolytes remain poorly understood. In this work, we use machine learning-based molecular dynamics simulations to characterize ion transport with first principles-level accuracy in aqueous NaCl confined to graphene slit pores. We find that ionic conductivity decreases as the degree of confinement increases, a trend governed by changes in both ion self-diffusion and dynamic ion-ion correlations. We show that the self-diffusion coefficients of our confined ions are strongly influenced by the overall electrolyte density, which changes non-monotonically with slit height based on the layering of water molecules within the pore. We further observe a shift in the ions' diffusion mechanism towards more vehicular motion as the degree of confinement increases. Non-ideal (beyond Nernst-Einstein) contributions to transport become more prominent under confinement due to increased cation-anion correlations arising from long-lived contact ion pairs. By building a mechanistic understanding of confined electrolyte transport, this work provides insights that could guide the design of nanoporous materials optimized for efficient and selective ion transport.


---
# Machine Learning Approaches for Developing Potential Surfaces: Applications to OH-(H2O)n (n=1-3) Complexes

## 开发潜在表面的机器学习方法: 在OH-(H2O)n (n = 1-3) 配合物中的应用

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-5c808-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

**Authors:** Jiace, Sun

An approach for obtaining high-level ab initio potential surfaces is described.  The approach takes advantage of machine learning strategies in a two-step process.  In the first, the molecular-orbital based machine learning (MOB-ML) model uses Gaussian process regression to learn the correlation energy at the CCSD(T) level using the molecular orbitals obtained from Hartree-Fock calculations.  In this work, the MOB-ML approach is expanded to use orbitals obtained using a smaller basis set, aug-cc-pVDZ, as features for learning the correlation energies at the complete basis set (CBS) limit.  This approach is combined with the development of a neural-network potential, where the sampled geometries and energies that provide the training data for the potential are obtained using a diffusion Monte Carlo (DMC) calculation, which was run using the MOB-ML model.   Protocols are developed to make full use of the structures that are obtained from the DMC calculation in the training process.   These approaches are used to develop potentials for OH-(H2O) and H3O+(H2O), which are used for subsequent DMC calculations. The  results of these calculations are compared to those performed using previously reported potentials.   Overall, the results of the two sets of DMC calculations are in good agreement for these very floppy molecules.   Potentials are also developed for OH-(H2O)2 and OH-(H2O)3, for which there are not available potential surfaces.  The results of DMC calculations for these ions are compared to those for the correspondingOH-(H2O)2 and OH-(H2O)3 ions.  It is found that the level of delocalization of the shared proton is similar for a hydroxide or hydronium ion bound to the same number of water molecules.  This finding is consistent with the experimental observation that these sets of ions have similar spectra.


---
# Physics-guided deep learning-based constitutive modeling for the gravelly soil-structure interface

## 基于物理指导的基于深度学习的砾石土-结构界面本构模型

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-4596626/latest

This study presents a novel deep learning-based constitutive model for the gravelly soil-structure interface by employing a physics-guided Bidirectional Short-term and Long-term (BiLSTM) neural network. Employing separate modeling frameworks for shear and dilatancy, the approach integrates physics-guided neural networks and parameters to accurately capture the physical mechanisms underlying the mechanical response of the interface. Notably, the BiLSTM neural network exhibits precision in capturing shear response characteristics, including shear stress (&tau;) and &tau;-shear displacement (u) curves. Its adeptness in encapsulating interface mechanisms, such as loading scenarios, peak &tau;-values, and elastoplastic shear responses, makes it comparable to complex elastoplastic models. To represent the physical mechanism of dilatancy response, a physics-guided decomposed model is developed, separating the total dilatancy (v) into irreversible (vir) and reversible (vre) components. Comparisons with conventional holistic dilatancy models demonstrate the superior ability of the physics-guided decomposed framework to simulate v and its components, i.e., vir and vre, and their relationships with u. The study recommends utilizing the physics-guided decomposed modeling framework for dilatancy alongside the shear modeling framework for constitutive modeling of the gravelly soil-structure interface. The proposed modeling framework simulated both monotonic and cyclic responses under various normal stresses (&sigma;z), demonstrating its capacity to comprehensively capture the interface behavior.


---
# A Recent Systematic Review: System Identification for Modeling and Control in Autonomous Vehicles

## 最近的系统综述: 自动驾驶汽车建模和控制的系统识别

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5730506/latest

This systematic literature review aims to identify recent trends and developments in system identification for the modeling and control of autonomous vehicles. Self-driving cars require robust operational dynamics that require modeling to ensure that the vehicles perform complex tasks and respond to changes in the working environment. In response to this, efforts were made to follow the guidelines of the PRISMA (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses) checklist. Following pilot testing and database selection, Scopus and Web of Science searches produced 31 primary studies that met the inclusion criteria. These studies are categorised into three themes: The special topics presented include: (1) Autonomous Vehicles and Navigation Control, consisting of recent developments in path planning, obstacle detection, and mode switching; (2) System Identification and Modeling Techniques, which discusses dynamic model identification, real-time parameter estimation, and observer-based methodology; and (3) Machine Learning and Advanced Control Approaches, which discusses the integration of data-driven models, reinforcement learning, and hybrid control systems on vehicles. The findings indicate that integrating conventional control theories with contemporary advanced machine learning reduces reliability, flexibility, and performance. They also highlight how AV should obtain real-time data and IoT to enhance the performance of the control system under conditions of uncertainty. Considering this, this review finds that system identification remains a fundamental area to make breakthroughs in the development of autonomous vehicles because it offers a link between simulation and real-world results. Therefore, the findings offer a guideline for future research focusing toward making control strategies more intelligent and robust with policies for safer and more efficient auto referent systems in land, airborne, and water vehicle systems.


---
# A Stacked Machine Learning Framework for Predicting Electrical Power Grid Stability

## 用于预测电网稳定性的堆叠机器学习框架

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5734810/latest

Ensuring the stability of electrical power grids is critical to maintaining reliable energy distribution and mitigating the risk of blackouts, which can lead to substantial economic and safety challenges. Traditional stability prediction methods often rely on physical models constrained by inherent assumptions and limitations, making them less effective in addressing the dynamic and nonlinear characteristics of modern power grids. This study introduces a novel stacked machine learning approach to predict power grid stability by integrating ten distinct classifiers and corresponding regression models. Each model is rigorously evaluated for its predictive performance, contributing to a robust ensemble design that leverages the strengths of individual techniques. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed stacked framework significantly outperforms conventional methods, achieving a remarkable 99% accuracy rate during validation. This high level of accuracy underscores the potential of machine learning ensembles in capturing complex patterns and interactions within power grid data. By employing advanced algorithms, this framework not only enhances prediction reliability but also contributes to proactive grid management strategies, ultimately fostering resilient and sustainable energy systems. The study highlights the practical implications of adopting machine learning-driven solutions to address critical challenges in power grid stability.


---
# Establishment of machine translation model based on asymmetric Encoder-Decoder structure and its application in English grammar error detection

## 基于非对称编解码器结构的机器翻译模型的建立及其在英语语法错误检测中的应用

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5734973/latest

Asymmetric codecs have been successful in many deep learning tasks recently. It is a forward-looking research to apply this deep learning neural network to English grammar error detection tasks. The traditional machine translation model has poor semantic analysis ability, which leads to the low accuracy of the results when using the model to detect English grammatical errors. To solve this problem, this paper designs a deep learning neural network model based on asymmetric Encoder-Decoder. Firstly, English sentences need to be pre-processed and converted into a tuple probability table recognizable by the model, which is subsequently fed into the model of the encoder decoder. In the encoder: Pre-embedding is first implemented with the help of temporal convolutional network infrastructure to initially obtain the word mapping relationships in the sentences and then connected to BiLSTM for accurate word embedding to capture the word-to-word relationships in the sentences. In addition, for the context intermediate vector output by the encoder, in order to more accurately and adaptively extract relevant features with global information, the attention mechanism is used to process the features output from bilstm according to their corresponding weights. In the decoder, bigru is used to decode the context intermediate vector output from the encoder. And outputs the translation result after the decoding is completed. After training the machine translation model, word analysis is performed through the process of decoding the model. Finally, the experiment detected English grammatical errors, such as articles, prepositions, nouns, verbs and subject predicate agreement. The experimental results show that the designed model outperforms the comparison method in terms of evaluation metrics such as precision, recall and F1 values for English grammar detection. The necessity of each component of the model is verified, and it is shown that the m odel can effectively improve the accuracy of English grammar error detection. The research in this paper provides an important theoretical guidance for applying deep learning neural networks with asymmetric codecs to English grammar error detection.


---
# A neuromorphic multi-scale approach for heart rate and state detection

## 一种用于心率和状态检测的神经形态多尺度方法

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5737326/latest

With the advent of novel sensor and machine learning technologies, it is becoming possible to develop wearable systems that perform continuous recording and processing of biosignals for health or body state assessment. For example, modern smartwatches can already track physiological functions, including heart rate and its anomalies, with high precision. However, stringent constraints on size and energy consumption pose significant challenges for always-on operation to detect trends across multiple time scales for extended periods of time. To address these challenges, we propose an alternative solution that exploits the ultra-low power consumption features of mixed-signal neuromorphic technologies. We present a biosignal processing architecture that integrates multimodal sensory inputs and processes them using the principles of neural computation to reliably detect trends in heart rate and physiological states. We validated this architecture on a mixed-signal neuromorphic processor and demonstrated its robust operation despite the inherent variability of the analog circuits present in the system. We show how the system can estimate both instantaneous heart rate and its long-term states discretized into distinct zones, effectively detecting monotonic changes over long time periods for recognizing pathological states such as agitation. This approach paves the way for a new generation of energy-efficient stand-alone wearable devices that are particularly suited for scenarios that require continuous health monitoring with minimal device maintenance.


---
# Impact of Non-Standard Unicode Characters on Security and Comprehension in Large Language Models

## 非标准Unicode字符对大型语言模型中的安全性和可理解性的影响

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5723808/latest

In this report, we present a comparative analysis of the performance of 15 large language models (LLMs). Each model underwent a standardized test comprising 38 queries obfuscated using alphanumeric symbols of non-standard Unicode characters. The responses of each model were analyzed using three key metrics: jailbreaks (prompt injections that cause a large language model to follow instructions contrary to its intended use), hallucinations (generating incorrect or misleading information), and comprehension errors. Our work reveals the inherent vulnerabilities of LLMs when they encounter non-standard character sets. Our findings show that non-standard Unicode characters reduced the efficacy of guardrails implemented through Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF) and challenged the notion of "human-level language comprehension" in these models. On average, 42.44% of character sets trigger jailbreaks, 32.22% trigger hallucinations, and 24.34% of character sets are not understood by the models. Consequently, these models exhibit heightened vulnerability to content policy breaches and prompt leakage using non-standard Unicode characters. Our study highlights the need to incorporate non-standard Unicode text in LLM training data and algorithms to enhance the safety and capabilities of these models.

